# The classical poetry of Korea

**저자:** Kevin O'Rourke  
**출처:** https://ltikorea.buk.io/@ka1990  
**책 ID:** ka1990  
**장르:** Lyric Poetry  

## About The Digital Library of Korean Classics

The Digital Library of Korean Classics is a project undertaken by Literature Translation Institute of Korea (LTI Korea) to digitalize selected translated titles of Korean classics published in the late nineteenth to the early twenty-first century.

LTI Korea is an affiliate of the Ministry of Culture, Sports, and Tourism of the Republic of Korea that seeks to promote Korean literature and culture around the world.

This e-book was made by scanning and converting the original book using OCR software. We have made every effort to ensure the book is free of any errors or omissions, but if you discover any, please email us so that we can improve the quality of the book.

---

## CONTENTS

HYANGGA

Written by Kim Yeol-gyu

Translated by Adrian F. Buzo

Introduction

The Lyricism of Hyangga

The Lyricism that Prevails over Emptiness

Hyangga as Incantations

HYANGGA IN THE Samgukyusa

Sijo

Written by Pak Chol-hui

Translated by Cho Un-je

TWENTY WORKS OF Sijo

Written by Chung Chol

Translated by Kevin O'Rourke

Gasa

Written by Lee Sang-bo

Translated by Lee Young-gul

THREE WORKS OF Gasa

Translated by Lee Young-gul

Sangchun-gok Written by Chung Kuk-in

Samiin-gok Written by Chung Chol

Kyuwon-ga Written by Huh Nansolhon

PANSORI

Written by Kim Heung-gyu

Translated by Adrian F. Buzo

NOTES ON CONTRIBUTORS

---

TO

MY LITTLE SON

GEORGE JAMES MORLEY

THE DAYS OF WHOSE YEARS

ARE

TWO EASTERN SPRINGS AND AUTUMNS

---

## FOREWORD

MUTUAL UNDERSTANDING AMONG HUMAN FAMILY

We frequently use the term, “human family.” Peoples all over the world have become so close to one another that they are now regarded as members of one family. In spite of such proximity, different ways of life, customs and modes of thinking have engendered differences in aesthetic sense and in forms of expression.

But the best way to mitigate such differences and to promote mutual understanding is to encounter the artistic peculiarities of other countries through international languages. Many countries are ardently engaged in translation projects. These efforts are taken to further strengthen the intimacy existing among the family of man.

Translation of Korean literature for readers of other nations is an important part of various projects undertaken by the Korean Culture and Arts Foundation. We have already introduced a considerable portion of modem Korean literature to readers abroad with the help of many noted publishers of other countries.

Now we publish a few booklets to introduce the classic literature of Korea. The roots of all modern literatures could be found classic works accumulated through centuries. It is our fervent hope that these booklets contribute to mutual understanding among members of the human family.

Song Ji-young

Chairman

The Korean Culture and Arts Foundation

---

## PREFACE

Editor

Lee Young-gul

The Classical Poetry of Korea offers historical surveys of poetic genres and translations of some representative works to the readers in the English-speaking world.

hyangga Sijo, Gasa and pansori constitute the classical poetry of Korea in contrast to modern Korean poetry which has evolved with the influence of the poetry of the West. Hyangga is the oldest tradition; it is the poetry of the Silla and Koryeo dynasties written in Korean by means of the idu script. It’s length varies from four to eight or ten lines. Reflecting strong Buddhist sentiments, hyangga often deals with the mysteries of life and death. Twenty-five hyanggahave survived, and fourteen hyangga from the Samgukyusa are offered here by translations of Adrian F. Buzo.

Sijo, which had developed from the earlier hyangga, is a dominant literary form of the Yi dynasty. It consists of mere three lines, the last one emphasizing a sentiment or mood. A Confucianist outlook is often reflected in contrast to the Buddhist philosophy in hyangga. Twenty Sijo are offered by Kevin O’Rourke’s translations.

While hyangga and Sijo seek concentration of thought or emotion, Gasa is a more leisurely form, in which various subjects receive lyrical development. Enjoyment of natural beauty, Confucianist morality and other didactic purposes are frequent motifs among diverse subjects. Three Gasa works are represented here by translations of the present editor.

If hyangga Sijo and Gasa are essentially lyric forms, pansori is a form of oral narrative poetry. It began in the Yi dynasty around the 17th century. It’s performance requires along with the audience a singer and his drummer accompanist. Hence, pansori has a dramatic character.

Historical accounts of hyangga Sijo, Gasa and pansori have been prepared in Korean respectively by Kim Yeol-gyu, Pak Chol-hui, Lee Sang-bo and Kim Heung-gyu, who all teach Korean literature at universities in Seoul. The present anthology is the common enterprise of many hands.

This enterprise is part of a larger translation project initiated by the Korean Culture and Arts Foundation. The contributors to The Classical Poetry of Korea look forward to encouragement and criticism from readers of this anthology.

---
