# Lives of Eminent Korean Monks: The Haedong Koseung Chun

**저자:** Kakhun  
**출처:** https://ltikorea.buk.io/@ka1982  
**책 ID:** ka1982  
**장르:** Buddhist Biography  

## About The Digital Library of Korean Classics

The Digital Library of Korean Classics is a project undertaken by Literature Translation Institute of Korea (LTI Korea) to digitalize selected translated titles of Korean classics published in the late nineteenth to the early twenty-first century.

LTI Korea is an affiliate of the Ministry of Culture, Sports, and Tourism of the Republic of Korea that seeks to promote Korean literature and culture around the world.

This e-book was made by scanning and converting the original book using OCR software. We have made every effort to ensure the book is free of any errors or omissions, but if you discover any, please email us so that we can improve the quality of the book.

---

## CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION

Lives OF EMINENT KOREAN MONKS

BIBLIOGRAPHY

ENDNOTE

---

for C. Y. L. and C. S. L.

---

## PREFACE

The text I have used in translating Lives of Eminent Korean Monks is that in the Taishŏ Tripitaka, not because it is a basic text, for it is marred by wrong punctuation and by textual errors, but because it is readily available in major libraries. The earliest available edition in block prints is said to have existed until the outbreak of the Korean War (some say even the blocks themselves existed in Suwŏn, at the Yongju monastery, before 1950); it is now lost. In view of the absence of such an authentic text, I have collated all the versions available to me: among them the manuscript copy of the late Asami Rintarō and the texts in the Pulgyo, Dainihon bukkyŏ zensho, and Chosŏn pulgyo t‘ongsa. Such collating, together with necessary emendations for puzzling passages, is indicated in footnotes. Ideally, however, a correct text, with all errors eliminated but with collation and emendations, should accompany the translation; but owing to technical difficulties such a text must await another occasion.

This study was completed under a grant from the American Philosophical Society and the University of Hawaii Research Council, and I am grateful to both institutions for their assistance. I am also indebted to Professors Fang Chao-ying, Richard B. Mather, Joseph Needham, and Johannes Rahder for answering my queries; and to Professors Chow Tse-tsung, Masatoshi Nagatomi, Richard H. Robinson, Edward W. Wagner, and Arthur F. Wright for reading the translation and offering constructive criticism. To Professor Leon Hurvitz go my deep thanks for going over with me the moot points in the texts. However, I alone am responsible for any errors which may remain.

The substance of the Introduction was first presented as a paper before the eighteenth annual meeting of the Association for Asian Studies on April 5, 1966.

Honolulu, Hawaii

September 1968

Peter H. Lee

---

## Abbreviations

A       Asami Rintarō’s manuscript copy in Berkeley, Calif.

AM        Asia Major.

BD        Herbert A. Giles. A Chinese Biographical Dictionary (Shanghai, 1898).

BEFEO        Bulletin de l‘Ecole FranÇaise d‘ Extrême-Orient.

BHSD        Franklin Edgerton. Buddhist Hybrid Sanskrit Grammar and Dictionary (New Haven, 1953).

BKD        Ono Gemrayō, ed. Bussho kaisetsu daijiten (12 vols.; Tokyo, 1933-1936).

CG        Chōsen gakuhō.

CH        Chindan hakpo.

Chavannes (1)   Mémoires composé à l‘epoque de la grande dynastie T‘ang sur les religieux éminents qui allèrent chercher la loi dans les pays d‘accident (Paris, 1894).

Chavannes (2)   “Voyages de Song Yun dans l‘Udyāna et le Gandhāra (518-522p.C.),” BEFEO, 3 (1903), 379-429.

Chavannes (3)   “Les pays d‘Occident d‘après le Wei Lio,” TP, 6 (1905), 519-571.

Chavannes (4)   “Les pays d‘Occident d‘après le Heou Han chou,” TP, 8 (1907), 149-234.

Chavannes (5)   “Seng Houei,” TP, 10 (1909), 199-212.

CJS          Chōsen jisatsu shiryō  朝鮮寺刹史料 (2 vols.; Keijō, 1911).

CKK        Chōsen kosho kankōkai 朝鮮古書刋行會 edition.

CKS         Chōsen kinseki sōran 朝鮮金石總覽 (2 vols.; Keijō, 1919).

CMP        Pak Yong-dae 朴容大et al. Chŭngbo munhŏn pigo 增補文獻備考 (KKH; Seoul, 1957).

CTP         Yi Nŭng-hwa. Chosŏn pulgyo t‘ongsa (2 vols.; Seoul, 1918).

CSTCC    Ch‘u san-ts‘ang chi-chi (T. 55, no. 2145).

HBGR      Hōbōgirin: Dictionnaire Encyclopédique du Bouddhisme d‘après les sources chinoises et japonaises (Tokyo, 1929-1931).

HJAS       Harvard Journal of Asiatic Studies.

HKC       Haedong kosŭng chŏn (T. 50, no. 2065).

HKSC     Tao-hsüan. Hsü kao-seng chuan (T. 50, no. 2060).

HTS        Hsin T‘ang shu (Erh-shih-wu shih edition).

Hurvitz   Léon Hurvitz, tr. Wei Shou, Treatise on Buddhism and Taoism (ed., Tsukamoto Zenryū), in Yün-Kang, XVI, supplement (Kyoto, 1956).

JA          Journal Asiatique.

JAOS    Journal of the American Oriental Society.

JAS       Journal of Asian Studies.

KHMC     Kuang hung-ming chi (T. 52, no. 2103).

Kim Tong-hwa (1)    “Koguryŏ  sidae ŭi pulgyo sasang,” Asea yŏn‘gu, 2 (1959), 1-44.

Kim Tong-hwa (2)   “Silla sidae ŭi pulgyo sasang,” Asea yŏn‘gu, 5 (1962), 1-57.

KKH    Kojŏn kanhaeng hoe 古典刋行會 edition (Seoul).

KRS        Chŏng In-ji et al. Koryŏsa 高麗史 (Tongbanghak yŏn‘guso 東方學硏究所 edition; Seoul, 1955-1961).

KRSCY    Koryŏsa chŏryo 高麗史節要 (KKH; Seoul, 1960).

KS         Maema Kyŏsaku. Kosen sappu (3 vols.; Tokyo, 1944-1957).

KSC      Hui-chiao. Liang kao-seng chuan (T. 50, no. 2059).

KT        Korean Tripitaka (Seoul, 1957-).

Lamotte     Étienne Lamotte. Le Traité de la Grande Vertu de Sagesse de Nāgārjuna (2 vols.; Louvain, 1944-1949).

Legge       James Legge. The Chinese Classics (5 vols.; reprinted, Hong Kong, 1960).

LTSPC     Li-tai san-pao chi (T. 49, no. 2034).

Maspero (1) “Le songe et l‘ambassade de 1‘empereur Ming: Étude critique des Sources,” BEFEO, 10 (1910), 95-130.

Maspero (2) “Communautés et moines bouddhistes chinois aux 2e et 3e siècles,” BEFEO, 10 (1910), 222-232.

Maspero (3) “Les origines de la communauté bouddhiste de Lo-yang,” JA, 225 (1934), 87-107.

Maspero (4) Mélanges posthumes sur les religions et l’histoire de la Chine (3 vols.; Paris, 1960).

MBD      Mochizuki Shinkŏ. Bukkyŏ daijiten (10 vols.; Tokyo, 1960-1963).

MCB      Mélange Chinois et Bouddhiques.

MH        Édouard Chavannes. Les mémoires historiques de Se-ma Ts‘ien (5 vols.; Paris, 1895-1905).

MT         Morohashi Tetsuji, ed. Dai kanwa jiten (13 vols.; Tokyo, 1955-1960).

MTB      Memoirs of the Research Department of the Toyo Bunko.

Pelliot (1)    “Deux itinéraires de Chine en Inde à la fin du VIIIe siècle,” BEFEO, 4 (1904), 131-413.

Pelliot (2)    “Les kouo-che ou maîtres du royaume dans le bouddhisme chinois,” TP, 12 (1911), 671-676.

Pelliot (3)    “L‘origine du nom de ‘Chine’,” TP, 13 (1912), 727-742.

Pelliot (4)    “Encore à propos du nom de ‘Chine’,” TP, 14 (1913), 427-428.

Pelliot (5)    “Les noms propres dans les traductions chinoises du Milindapañha,” JA, 11series, 4 (1914), 379-419.

Pelliot (6)    “Meou-tseu ou les doutes levés,” TP, 19 (1918-1919), 255-433.

Pelliot (7)    “Encore un mot à propos du Sūtra des Causes et des Effets et de 1‘expression siang-kiao,” TP, 25 (1927-1928), 92-94; and “Le terme de siang-kiao comme désignation du bouddhisme,” TP, 26 (1929), 51-52.

Pelliot (8)    Notes on Marco Polo (Paris, 1959).

SG        Seikyū gakusō.

SGSG     Kim Pu-sik 金富軾. Samguk sagi 三國史記 (Chōsen shigakkai edition; Keijō, 1928).

SGYS      Iryŏn 一然. Samguk yusa 三國遺事 (Ch‘oe Nam-sŏn edition; Seoul, 1954).

SH          Soothill and Hodous, A Dictionary of Chinese Buddhist Terms (London, 1937).

SKSC     Tsan-ning. Sung kao-seng chuan (T. 50, no. 2061).

SPPY     Ssu-pu pei-yao.

SPTK     Ssu-pu ts‘ung-k‘an.

SR       Shirin.

SZ       Shigaku zasshi.

T        Taishō shinshū daizōkyō (100 vols.; Tokyo 1924-1934).

TG    Tōyō gakuhō.

TP      T‘oung Pao.

TSCC     T‘u-shu chi-ch‘eng.

Tsukamoto    Gisho Shakurōshi no kenkyū (Kyoto, 1961).

TYS      No Sa-sin et al. Sinjŭng Tongguk yŏji sŭngnam 新增東國輿地勝覽 (KKH; Seoul, 1958).

WYWK    Wan-yu wen-k‘u.

Yang      Yang Chu-dong. Kukhak yŏn‘gu non‘go 國學硏究論攷 (Seoul, 1962).

YSGYS    Yi Pyŏng-do. Wŏnmun pyŏng yŏkchu Samguk yusa 原文并譯註三國遺事 (Seoul, 1956).

Zürcher   Erik Zürcher. The Buddhist Conquest of China: The Spread and Adaptation of Buddhism in Early Medieval China (2 vols.; Leiden, 1959).

---
