# Mirrored Minds: A Thousand Years of Korean Verse​

**저자:** Ch'oe Ch'iwon et al.  
**출처:** https://ltikorea.buk.io/@ka1977  
**책 ID:** ka1977  
**장르:** Lyric Poetry  

## About The Digital Library of Korean Classics

The Digital Library of Korean Classics is a project undertaken by Literature Translation Institute of Korea (LTI Korea) to digitalize selected translated titles of Korean classics published in the late nineteenth to the early twenty-first century.

LTI Korea is an affiliate of the Ministry of Culture, Sports, and Tourism of the Republic of Korea that seeks to promote Korean literature and culture around the world.

This e-book was made by scanning and converting the original book using OCR software. We have made every effort to ensure the book is free of any errors or omissions, but if you discover any, please email us so that we can improve the quality of the book.

---

## CONTENTS

Translator's Note

Ch'oe Ch'iwon

Ch'ungdam, a Shilla monk

Yongjae, a Shilla monk

Anonymous (hyangga)

Anonymous (Koryo kayo)

Pak Illyang

Chong Chisang

Yi Illo

Yi Kyubo

U T’ak

Kim Kukki

Yi Cho'nyon

Yi Chaehyon

Yi Saek

Kil Chae

Ha Wiji

Kim Chongso

So Kojong

Kim Shisup

Tanjong

Yi Hwang

Hwang Chini

Shin Saimdang

Kwon Homun

Chong Jak

Yi I

Chong Ch'ol

Paek Kwanghun

Yi Tal

Ch'oe Kyongch'ang

Ho Nansorhon

Yi Okpong

Ho Kyun

Yun Sondo

Kim Sujang

Kang Sehwang

Pak Chiwon

Chong Tasan

An Minyong

Han Yons'un

Kim Tonehwan

Kim Sowol

Chong Chiyong

Kim Yongnang

Yi Yuksa

Kim Kwangsop

Yu Ch'ihwan

Kim Kirim

Paik Sok

So Chongju

Pak Mog'wol

Yun Tongju

Ku Sang

Shin Ch'angho

Cho Chihun

Kim Suyong

Cho Byunghwa

Kim Chongsam

Kim Ch'unsu

Shin Tongjip

Mun Toksu

Chon Ponggon

Shin Tongch'un

Ko Un

Shin Kyongnim

Hwang Tonggyu

Chong Chin'gyu

Pak Kyong'yong

Kim Chiha

Kim Kwanggyu

Yu Anjin

O Saeyong

Pak Chaech'on

Kang Un'gyo

Kim Namju

Hwang Chiu

---

## Translator’s Note

Korea boasts two poetry traditions, one in Chinese and the other in the vernacular. This little book tries to give the reader the flavor of both traditions: it ranges from the vernacular hyangga and Koryo kayo of Shilla and Koryo, to the Chinese hanshi and the vernacular shijo of Koryo and Choson, and concludes with a selection of modern Korean poems. The poems are presented in chronological order so that the reader can see the two traditions side by side. This book makes no claim to being a comprehensive anthology; it is aimed at the general reader rather than at the scholar. The objective is to give the general reader the flavor of a vast tradition in two languages, to entice him or her to dig into the unplumbed depths of Korea’s rich poetry tradition.

---

Mirrored Minds:

A Thousand Years

Of Korean Verse

---

## Ch’oe Ch’iwon (857~?)

Ch’oe Ch’iwon was the first Korean poet to achieve an international reputation for his Chinese verse.

• Autumn Night in the Rain (hanshi)

---
