# Kyunyŏ-jŏn : The life, Times and Songs of a Tenth Century Korean Monk

**저자:** Chŏng Hyŏngnyŏn  
**출처:** https://ltikorea.buk.io/@ka1978  
**책 ID:** ka1978  
**장르:** Buddhist Biography  

## About The Digital Library of Korean Classics

The Digital Library of Korean Classics is a project undertaken by Literature Translation Institute of Korea (LTI Korea) to digitalize selected translated titles of Korean classics published in the late nineteenth to the early twenty-first century.

LTI Korea is an affiliate of the Ministry of Culture, Sports, and Tourism of the Republic of Korea that seeks to promote Korean literature and culture around the world.

This e-book was made by scanning and converting the original book using OCR software. We have made every effort to ensure the book is free of any errors or omissions, but if you discover any, please email us so that we can improve the quality of the book.

---

## CONTENTS

Introduction

The Kyunyŏ -jŏn

Appendix A: The Bhadracarīpraṇidhāna

Appendix B: The Early Korean Writing System and the

Interpretation of Kyunyŏ's song

Bibliography

Endnote

---

Dedicated

with respect and deep affection

to the memory of

Professor A. R. Davis

---

## ABOUT THE AUTHORS

Adrian Buzo has lectured and published widely on Korean literature and society. He received his M.A. degree in Korean Language and Literature from Dankook University in 1981, and was appointed Lecturer in Korean Studies at what is now Swinburne University of Technology in 1989. He was appointed Executive Director of the newly established National Korean Studies Centre in November 1990. Mr Buzo is a member of the Australia-Korea Foundation Board, and in addition to authoring a number of Korean language textbooks, was editor of the Australian Government report Korea to the Year 2000: Implications for Australia (1992).

Tony Prince received his B.A. and Ph.D. in Chinese Studies at the University of Sydney. He subsequently spent four years in Taiwan, studying Chinese Buddhism and teaching at the College of Chinese Culture (now the Chinese Culture University) and the China Academy. After a further two years of study in Japan, he returned to Australia in 1977 to take up a lectureship at the University of Sydney, where he is currently Senior Lecturer in Chinese Studies. His main research interest is the Hua Yen School of Chinese Buddhism.

---

## ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

The Kyunyŏ-jŏn has long been regarded as one of the most significant documents of the Koryŏ Period (918-1392), but its proper translation requires expertise in a number of fields, including classical Chinese language and literature, Hua Yen Buddhism, Koryŏ history, and Old Korean language and literature. During a series of informal sessions at the University of Sydney during the early 1980s, Dr Prince and I became increasingly impressed with the fact that together we were fortunate enough to possess sufficient expertise in these fields for a long-overdue attempt to bring it before a wider audience. This translation is the result.

For my part, I would like to express particular thanks to Professor Nam P’ung-hyŏn of Dankook University, Seoul, who first guided me through the work and then later offered many helpful comments, and to others at Dankook who assisted in so many ways, especially University President Chang Ch’ung-sik.

At the University of Sydney, thanks are also due to a number of people within the School of Asian Studies who have guided this work through to publication, notably Dr Mabel Lee, Dr A. D. Syrokomla-Stefanowska and Dr Duk-Soo Park.

Finally, it remains for us to accept corporate responsibility for the final translation, opinions and interpretations contained herein. If pressed, responsibility may be attributed as follows: Dr Prince is primarily responsible in the Buddhist studies and Chinese literary domains, while the actual translation was a joint effort. I am primarily responsible in the domains of Korean history, language and literature. Praise, blame and correspondence should be directed accordingly.

Adrian Buzo

Sydney

June 1993

---
