# Act 1, Scene 1

**저자:** Lee Mu-young  
**출처:** https://ltikorea.buk.io/@ka2087  
**책 ID:** ka2087  
**장르:** Pastoral Fiction  

Act 1, Scene 1

By Lee Mu-young

Translated by Mi-Ryong Shim

Literature Translation Institute of Korea

---

## About the Author

About Lee Mu-young

Lee Mu-young (1908 – 1960) was born Lee Yong-gu in Eumseong County of North Chungcheong Province. After dropping out of Huimun Common High School, he went to Japan and studied literature there. While he had published a piece in the journal Joseon Mundan earlier, it was not until 1932 when his play “The Daydreamers” was selected for publication in the daily Donga Ilbo that his writing career took off. After this, he also began working as a reporter for the arts section of the Donga Ilbo in colonial Korea. He became a member of the Research Group for the Dramatic Arts and in 1933 he also joined the modernist literary circle known as “The Group of Nine.” After liberation, he served as a professor at Dankook University. He became a member of the executive committee of the National Association of Literary Organizations in 1946 and the vice president of the Association of Korean Writers for Freedom in 1955.

Lee wrote various works on the subject matter of the farming village and he has come to be identified as one of the representative writers for agrarian literature in Korea. He showed talent for creating narratives that demonstrated the devastating poverty of the farming villages as results of the broad structural contradictions existing in society. The short story “Act I, Scene I” tells the story of a main character who quits his job as a newspaper reporter to begin his life as a soil-covered farmer. The short story is often read as a work based on Lee’s own autobiographical experiences, as well as a model of the Korean agrarian novel. Lee’s other major works include: “The Spinners of the Earth’s Axis,” “The Mind that Draws the Earth,” and “The Farmer.” His short story collections include Intoxication and The Mountain Hut.

About “Act I, Scene I”

Lee Mu-young’s “Act I, Scene I” tells the story of Sutaek, a writer who leaves his city life behind to create a new life for himself as a farmer in the countryside. Through this transformation, he comes to reconcile with his father, a man of the soil who rails against the “city folk” for placing their self-interests and material comforts over the ethics of neighborly love and hard work. Sutaek also finds new inspiration for writing in the process of becoming a proper farmer. A work within the subgenre of agrarian literature, “Act I, Scene I” can also be read within the context of the Asia-Pacific War. The war and the total mobilization of society under the Japanese empire at this time, can be read in both the various details and the overall messages embodied in the text.

---

## Act 1, Scene 1

1

The clackety-clunk of an ox-drawn cart echoed forlornly along the wide main road. The road was quiet, with few passersby, and only the poplar trees planted along the roadside cast their long shadows in the late afternoon sun. At the entrance to a nearby village, an old man smoking a long pipe looked after his grandchild, who was naked, playing with some pebbles on the ground. The cicadas left behind by the shrewdly changing seasons, sang plaintively like a captive princess wailing her laments in a foreign land.

“Haw now, haw!”

The ash tree whip cracked loudly as it hit the ox’s flanks, flat and large as a kneading board. The ox did not react, perhaps simply relieved that the whipping drove the flies away. It continued ahead with the same plodding steps.

Every time the oxcart passed through a neighborhood, there would be a few people – like laborers sitting on straw mats spread in front of the local tavern, drying their brows – who followed the luggage piled up on the cart with their eyes. It was not the first time they had seen someone’s belongings bundled up for a move, but they were intrigued nonetheless by the kinds of furniture and household things loaded up on the cart. There were none of the usual clay pots, blocks of fermented soybeans, or gourd dippers to be found up on the cart. There was a wardrobe, but it was a different size and shape from the ones usually found in the countryside. They could also see flashes of the setting sun glancing off a large mirror mostly covered up with straw bags. In place of a wooden trunk for a trousseau, there was an ornate single-drawer chest, as well as a large rectangular wicker basket. They could also see an elaborate hat for god only knows what occasion, a shiny oxblood leather bag, and a desk fit for a town chief or a property manager with a fancy matching chair.

“Some concubine’s maybe, all that stuff,” muttered one of the onlookers. He seemed like the gambling type, a tall fellow with thin yellowish whiskers.

“Bet you’re right,” another man rejoined.

“You just lost your bet then,” said the third. “That doesn’t look like a concubine’s things. A concubine would have a mother-of-pearl wardrobe or something flashy like that, not this stuff. Well, let’s see what the owners look like.”

Some distance behind the oxcart came a young man dressed in a navy blue shirt and white trousers, a hat perched neatly atop his head in spite of the still-hot sun. He looked to be around thirty-four or thirty-five.

He walked along holding the hand of a little girl of about five or six years dressed in the Western style. On his other side was a young woman, probably ten years younger than him, pulling along a little boy also dressed in the Western style. The boy looked about four or five, with a chubby little face. He was clutching in his right hand a red pouch that looked to be a bag of sweets.

“Daddy, is it still far?” the boy asked wearily.

“Just a little bit more. Our little Cheol-i is such a good boy, isn't he?” the man answered. He lit a cigarette and continued to follow the oxcart in silence.

“As far away as Hwashin department store?” the little boy asked again. He seemed exhausted.

“Yes, only that far and then we’ll be there,” the young woman answered this time, feeling sorry for the little one.

“But how do you know, Mommy? You've never even been there,” the little one looked up at her defiantly.

“No, but I know. Don’t I, Daddy?”

“Yes, Mommy knows.”

The man and woman took turns with the little boy, alternating between carrying him in their arms, giving him piggyback rides, and making him walk a few steps. The whole thing looked terribly troublesome, but they didn’t show it. They continued on in silence, as if they themselves were being dragged along by the ox.

Whenever the oxcart passed by another neighborhood, the locals would call out, “Hey, where to with all that stuff?” almost as if to the ox.

“To Saenteo,” the driver of the cart would answer gruffly without turning, as if to say ‘I am not an ox.’

“Whose house in Saenteo?”

“How should I know?” he'd say, whipping the ox's flank. “Whoa, whoa, ox! Let's hurry on now; I’ve had enough of these questions.”

When they had passed the last neighborhood on the main road, the man and the woman took turns looking back. The woman, especially, looked visibly relieved, as if she had emerged from a surveillance zone.

“Now it’s my turn to ask,” she said. “Do we still have a long way to go?”

“No, not much more now. I remember the walk being shorter than this, though. I wonder why it seems so far now,” the man murmured, half to himself, but the oxcart driver responded, “The roads get longer in the summer, too.”

A bit further along was a small stream. Remembering his childhood days of catching mudfish, the man Sutaek decided they would take a short break here. They could dry their sweat while resting underneath the shadow of the poplar trees. He also knew that his hometown Saenteo was not far from this little stream.

“Old man, why don’t you rest a bit too. Here, have a cigarette.”

“Would you also happen to have some ointment?”

“Ointment?”

“I don't know if my lips could handle smoking a cigarette like this.”

Hearing this, Sutaek laughed for the first time that day. ‘If I'd known the old man was such a character, I would have talked with him from the station all the way here. It would have been nice to pass the time,’ he thought.

After sending the oxcart ahead, Sutaek took the time to wash his face and feet. He undressed the little ones and washed them off in the stream while his wife took out a small hand mirror from her purse and fixed up her face. As he sat on the edge of the stream with his hands in the water, childhood memories of playing there, as well as the memory of his struggles for survival over the past thirty years, bubbled up in his mind. The fading clackety-clunk of the loaded oxcart sounded even more despondent as an accompaniment to his memories.

“You're a failure,” he said to himself in a low voice. The water babbled softly through the small mound of pebbles under his feet. Oh the stories to be heard if one could only decipher the babbling of the stream. For Sutaek, however, the sound of the oxcart, loaded down with the baggage of a failure, grew louder and louder, covering over the sound of the stream and the memories of his past.

“A failure? What makes you a failure? This is just the beginning of the life you've wanted for so long!” he objected, as if in response to someone else calling him a failure.

---

2

This journey was, in fact, an important turning point in Sutaek’s life. Whether this journey marked a fresh new start or a defeat was a matter of fate. Sutaek was filled with emotion, but he did not know himself whether it was hope or fear. When he submitted his resignation letter at the end of the summer, he had not yet thought of himself as a “failure.” On the contrary, he'd been dreaming of a life in the countryside since spring, and had been going around with the resignation letter at the ready in his pocket. Wrapped and rewrapped in several envelopes, the letter remained in his pocket until the end of the summer. At eighty won a month, his salary had not been bad, and, as the Chief of General Affairs at the company liked to remind him, hundreds of college graduates would gladly line up for his position. But it was rather difficult to live in the city on his wages alone especially after the war broke out and the high inflation that followed. Nevertheless, it went without saying any income was still better than none. Almost all of Sutaek’s friends used this simple calculus when they urged him to reconsider his plan. The incredulous look on the Chief of General Affairs's face confounded by Sutaek’s decision to throw away his own good fortune and the patronizing voices of his colleagues who thought he was being frivolous actually ended up strengthening his resolve. More importantly, Sutaek’s plan was not as baseless as they thought. Almost all the friends and colleagues who advised against his recklessness pointed to the difficulty of earning a living as the most important factor. Very few of the men who were around Sutaek’s age, however, had struggled through as much economic hardship as he had. He left his hometown at age twelve and supported himself through junior high school. At seventeen, he left for Tokyo and enrolled in the vocational program at C University. He managed to complete his education, surviving on leftover bread crusts and half-eaten rice balls he bought from nearby restaurants. After graduation, Sutaek found himself roaming the streets of Tokyo for another five or six years, without steady work or even the means to treat himself to a decent meal at a common restaurant. He lived like that into his thirties. Even when he returned to Korea, he continued to live off cheap ten-jeon meals for three years until he landed a job as a local news reporter at his current newspaper company. After he started his job and got married, he still had to fret over every purchase. Then, he found himself without wages for a long time when his newspaper was put on a ten-month-long suspension. During that time, he had the bitter experience of going a whole day without any food, while looking helplessly on as his wife panted and tore at her swollen pregnant belly. Husband and wife could find nothing more to do besides sit and stare at each other, waiting for the time to pass.

During this ten-month period, he saw his usually close friends' visits dry up once his income ran out. By this time, he already knew well that he couldn't get a single measure of rice or a bowl of ox-bone soup on credit when his salary envelopes were not coming in regularly.

“Nothing left to sell now, right?” he asked his wife.

“Nothing but the shirts off our backs….”

Her disconsolate reply, the bitter experience of having to repay the ten-odd pawn tickets he took out at the time over three full years—these memories were still fresh in his mind. A month before the newspaper was put under suspension, Sutaek went to borrow three won from M, one of his closest friends. It was M’s payday, a deliberate choice on Sutaek's part. When his friend refused him, however, Sutaek became incensed and cursed M. He had recorded all this in his diary, probably still tucked away somewhere in his desk.

Therefore, it came as a great shock when this very same Sutaek turned in a resignation letter.

“What will you do if you up and quit?” his superior R, the last to process his resignation letter, had asked. At the time, Sutaek had not felt even the slight twinge of concern explaining his future plans. Fortunately, his family back in the countryside owned some dozen plots of land. Plus, the cost of living would be much lower down in the village and some of his income would come from his writing. He had sounded confident, as though persuading R to come with him.

“You might do well to think about it some more.” R advised good-naturedly, but Sutaek rejected the suggestion out of hand as if R had attacked him.

“I don’t need to anymore.”

The stated reason for his resignation had been an “illness.” Upon hearing this, management had responded in kind, asking, “What illness?”

Sutaek was certainly not an invalid, per se. His was more of a psychological type of illness than a biological one. The doctors’ warnings about his lungs or his pleura were a bit worrisome, but he had also secretly believed that he would be fine. Sutaek had had a friend H, who had also been nurturing a dream of writing literature. When Sutaek heard that H had unexpectedly dropped dead, he had experienced real fear. Even so, he was not so weak-hearted as to give up his job over something like that. When he composed the resignation letter this spring, keeping it a secret from his wife and carefully applying his seal to it, he did so with a sliver of heroism.

Sutaek had been writing novels since his days in Tokyo. Of his writing, some had called him a stylist. During the heyday of “tendency literature,”1 he had been called a sympathizer, or a fellow traveler. Still others had mocked him for being a nihilist. The fact was, none of it was accurate. He was a writer who did not know his own color. It was around the time he began to be recognized as a novelist—or perhaps it was because of this—that he landed a job at the newspaper company. And that was the last of his life as a novelist. And so, he continued to eke out his life through this so-called literary medium of journalism.

The happiness he had felt receiving his first salary quickly faded with each article he wrote that began thus: “Around midnight on the night of XX when every thing had laid down to sleep, a terrible shriek rent the silence in the area around XX in XX Street. According to reports….” Before the year was out at his job, he had almost completely forgotten that he once loved literature. At first he had hoped that frequenting the police stations and hearing about all the incidents of robbery, prostitution, and fraud would eventually provide fodder for his literature. But these hopes soon faded. Initially he had believed that he was exposing evil and providing valuable information to the public, but he realized soon enough that his sense of valor was nothing more than an empty shell trotted out for his own self-justification. With this realization, he felt his life was no more than that of a machine. He left his house in the morning and moved about from here to there all day long. Then in the evening or more commonly, late at night, he would return home. Some days he was swept up by a group of friends to go drinking, while on others, he had after-work meetings that went far into the night. Days turned into weeks, weeks into months, and then into years. He lived this life for five years and all he gained from it was vanity and laziness. He also made many so-called friends, acquaintances rather, whose relations were particular to such societies.

Compared to what he gained, he had lost so much more. He once had at least three true friends, but the relationships grew distant as years passed by. Also, the small successes he had had as a novelist were now worth nothing more than a name, a single line barely visible on a list of supporters compiled for the anniversary of a publication or the like.

Whenever he saw his colleagues’ literary works published in the monthlies, he became depressed, staring glumly at the white plaster walls of his office. On more than one occasion, even the phone ringing off the hook failed to shake him from these ruminations.

“Hey! What’s the use of having a phone if you don’t answer it?”

Sutaek would look up to find his editor, nicknamed The Clairvoyant, glaring at him.

After being held up for hours at useless after-work meetings, Sutaek would return home alone on the last streetcar of the day. The sense of emptiness and futility at such times was incomparable. Every now and then the car would be completely deserted and, all alone in the big car, his eyes would well up with hot tears. He would start to sober up by the time he got home and once inside, would notice his desk draped over with a cloth. The inkstand with the pen still sticking out, the manuscript paper that hadn't been touched in over a month – they looked utterly pitiful, like an abandoned ship adrift on a vast sea, waiting for a commander who will never return. No doubt pressed by the lingering strength of the wine, he would fall on his desk and weep aloud, “No! Not like this! I'll start writing again tomorrow!”

After a year of promising himself, he was finally able to start a short story entitled “The Novelist Who Could Not Write.” The plot of the story went like this: a novelist gets a job. Soon he starts living like a bat, writing only at night. A burning desire to create propels him forward, but before he is able to put his ideas into practice, it is time for him to go back to work. He runs around completing various tasks until sunset, and then it is time for him to drag his limp body, drooping like a daffodil in summer, to another late-night meeting. His other days are followed by rounds of drinks and overnight work. He tries to organize the bits of his life into a sad tale of sorts, until he finds his thoughts turning to the question of how he should cajole the detectives tomorrow to get a story lead, how he should proceed with an article proposal, and the like. He weeps…. But in the end, he abandoned this story as well.

One blisteringly hot night, he put written reminders of principles to live by on the wall, as children do.

1. Rise early.

2. Come home right away after work.

3. Read or write fiction.

4. Go to bed early.

These resolutions would be broken in less than two days, however, when a meeting for the local news department lasted until nine o’clock at night. After enduring nearly four hours of heated debates about this, that, and everything else, he dragged himself home and promptly fell asleep. The next day he had to work overnight to write up an article on the soccer match sponsored by his newspaper company. And the day after that, he returned home at three o’clock in the morning after attending a mandatory meeting and being dragged around for three rounds of drinks.

‘What am I living for? And for whom? For the so-called cultural affairs? Ha!’ It had been a while since he even asked himself this.

It was around this time that Sutaek made another great discovery about himself. He realized that he was not well suited to be a newspaper reporter. He recognized that not only had he not enjoyed his job so far, he would probably never succeed at it, even in the distant future. Rather, he discovered only then that success as a newspaper reporter would mean the end of his literary life. It was a comedy. Or more accurately, a tragedy.

---

3

It was around this time that Sutaek started taking a few days off from work here and there. He wandered the outskirts of the city without any real purpose. One day, he persuaded his friend S to accompany him on a trip out to Cheongnyangni. Although he did not reveal everything, he confided to S that he intended to quit his job. Their conversation had turned to the topic of making a living when Sutaek suddenly noticed a familiar odor. At first he did not know where it came from. It was a pungent smell that assaulted his nose, then burrowed deep inside him until it reached his heart…. It was the smell of the soil.

When he realized it was soil, he could hear his father’s voice ringing in his ears: “A person has to smell the soil in order to live. Come and work on the farm with me after you finish your studies…. All that learning. Well, learning can be good too, but it can also be a burden.” Sutaek had scoffed. He had even pitied his father. Poor old man, he was held captive by the soil, but he still felt so emotionally attached to it. Now, however, Sutaek found himself captivated by the very same idea: “Return home. Feel the soil with my own hands.”

This is how Sutaek’s starry-eyed plans materialized. The first order of business was to sell all their furniture. His wife was reluctant, however, and their things fetched less than half what Sutaek had anticipated. As a result, all they had left was his severance pay, which totaled less than two hundred won.

Sutaek and his family finally arrived at his childhood home. A yellow dog barked loudly as they entered through the brush gates in front of the house. No one seemed to be there, however, and a cold wind blew through the house. Had they come to the wrong house, Sutaek wondered, and he hurried out to check the nameplate on the door. It was indeed the right house.

“Maybe they ran out to greet us after receiving our luggage,” his wife ventured. She did not know whether to enter the house or leave it.

Then someone yelled, “Big brother!” and a swarm of children surrounded him. Amidst these children whose faces Sutaek could not recall, was also his father, who he hadn't seen in six or seven years. Behind them were his aunt, holding a pair of rubber shoes with ripped backs, and his mother, now looking much aged.

“Oh you rascal, you! How could you…” As soon as his mother started with the reproaches, Sutaek went out to the parlor. The long room was now partitioned by a new sliding door. He could hear an abacus rattling in the room on the other side the partition. Perhaps his parents had rented it out to someone.

“That stuff outside, is it all yours?”

“Yes.”

“I see. Why the sudden change?”

“I’ll tell you soon enough,” Sutaek said and went into the back room attached to the main building of the house, which had been cleaned out for his stay. Inside, the wallpaper sagged along with the mud from the brittle walls drooping within. Left unused for so long, the room reeked of mold. The crate pasted over with colored paper, the jar without its rim – these things in the room gave it an appearance of a haunted chamber. Old clothing left hanging on the clothing rack sagged down like a corpse. Sutaek’s beautiful dream of the country life was first shattered in this room. The way he had envisioned it, the room was not so barren as this.

That night, father and son had a chance to sit down with one another for the first time in many years. The merchant who had been flicking his abacus in the upper room was gone now, and they were alone. Although Sutaek had decided to come back to his hometown, he knew little about the affairs of the household. When he first left home, the family had over five durak2 of rice paddies and more than ten gari of farming fields. When he visited home upon his return from Tokyo, the family’s rice paddies had decreased by five majigi3 and the fields by almost one whole gari. Seven years had passed since then and in that time, father and son had been almost complete strangers. Not a single piece of correspondence had passed between the two. There was no real reason for this, nor had it been intentional. It was only that the son, now a cultured man, had looked down on his primitive father, while the father had kept his overly cultured son at a respectful distance.

“How can someone be a proper person if he hates the smell of the soil? That fool has his nose in the air now,” Sutaek's father had mocked his son.

As for the son, he hated to see the way his father lived, always covered in dirt. His father had been born in the soil, grew up touching it, and continued to live off it. Sutaek had no respect for the common farmer who even clothed himself in dirt, making it difficult to tell the difference between the man and the earth. A proud cultured man, the son was ashamed to introduce dirty Old Man Kim as his father. He felt it a great embarrassment to have such a father. When he failed to invite his own father to his wedding, Sutaek provided a convenient excuse to his friends and colleagues. In truth, however, his vanity had made him feel ashamed of his father’s dirt-covered appearance. Of course, Old Man Kim was well aware of this. When his relatives and neighbors asked why he was not going to his son’s wedding, he angrily answered, “How can this wretched father dare to show up at a party celebrating that idiot, all high and mighty?! Why I heard that when someone asked Gwak Jusik’s son from Daeng Valley who his father was, he answered, ‘He’s just the farmhand at my house.’ So who’s to stop fools like that from calling their fathers their man servants?” In truth, Sutaek would have readily answered that way at the time. He had decided to not invite his father, knowing this. How many such sons might be found in the city now?

“A person needs to smell the soil. Those city folks can make all sorts of fancy food, but they don’t have that down-to-earth taste of country food. It’s the same with people. A person has to smell the soil and taste fermented soybeans to get that earthy flavor in him. Sure, whether it's food or people, city folks are clear and have better manners, but a person can’t live on manners alone! Let’s say that I step on your foot by accident: now you’ll get all fired up mad. But country folks like us here will just think, oh it’s just an accident, and let it go at that. If you go by proper manners, the one who stepped on someone else’s foot is in the wrong, of course. But how can you live on manners alone when you live with all these people?” Old Man Kim had lectured Sutaek this way when he visited home during his years in the junior high school. At the time, Sutaek, having become familiar with city life, had simply sneered.

Several years later, Sutaek was home again, ostensibly to spend the New Year’s holiday in his hometown. The newspapers had been claiming the season to be one of the coldest winters in the last twenty or even thirty years. Sutaek had told his parents he had come down in order to spend New Year’s at home since he had not seen them in a while. The truth was, however, that he had been sent on a business trip to a nearby village and stopped by the town on his way back.

That night, a robber had snuck into the house. Sutaek had been up, unable to sleep because of the smell of red clay coming from the walls and the musty smell of fermented soybeans that permeated the room. Suddenly he heard the sound of footsteps in the yard. After a few moments, Sutaek heard a voice say, “There's nothing worthwhile in there, so you should come on out! Come on now!” It was his father.

Sutaek peeked through a crack in the door and saw a man who was clearly a burglar. His father was telling him to come out to the yard but was blocking the path out, leaving the man confused as to what to do. The robber became desperate, and began pleading with him, “Sir, please sir, clear the path so I can leave!”

By this time, Sutaek was already near the yard having snuck out of his room and around the kitchen. When he saw that the man was an unarmed petty thief, he shrieked and leaped on him. Then, using the judo he had learned from his school days, he threw the man over his shoulders and bound his hands with his belt.

By now the whole house was awake and Old Man Kim ran into the yard. He was brandishing a stick used to prop up an A-frame. Everyone, including the burglar, Sutaek, and the whole household, thought the old man would begin clobbering the thief.

They were wrong. It was his son whose calves took a beating with the stick. Everyone present thought the old man must have hit the wrong person in all the commotion. With this in mind, Sutaek quickly dodged the stick and breathed a sigh of relief.

But they were wrong again. Old Man Kim found his son again and again with the stick.

“You heartless bastard! Why did you hit this man when nothing of yours was stolen? Think about the situation he must be in for him to go out stealing in this freezing weather. Country folk like us would never imagine acting like you did!”

The robber wept at the father's words, and when he left, it was with a full bag of rice strapped to his back.

The next day, Sutaek was forced to listen to a terribly long lecture from his father.

“People don’t live by the law alone. Heck, if that was the case, right now would be the best of times since there are more laws now than ever before. If people could live solely by the letter of the law, then why do we still have people breaking the law? You think there’s no reason why people can’t work and live according to the laws of the land, but that’s not how it goes. Just this autumn, someone was sent to jail for eating an apple from the orchard behind the township office. Of course, taking someone else’s things is bad, but a person shouldn't be sent to jail over it. Last night, you looked like someone who wouldn’t hesitate for a minute to send someone to jail for taking an apple from your orchard. Do you know who that man was? I pretended not to know him, but I know his father well. Most people turn out to be people we already know if you look into it since everyone knows each other in the countryside. Everyone is family… that’s how we live!”

This was difficult to understand for a man of the city. But today, as Sutaek conversed with his father, he felt that he could vaguely understand the gist of that “scent-of-the-earth" sentimentality.

Old Man Kim was overjoyed when he heard about his son’s unexpected plans. Sutaek only asked for five majigi of rice paddies and one gari of farm land, but his father insisted on giving him over eight majigi of rice paddies close to the best water sources. The old man also agreed to help his son get a new house. Of course, all it meant was that the rights to tenancy were transferred from father to son. His family only had less than five majigi of rice paddies and a few patches of farmland left in their name, a fact that Sutaek only discovered now.

“Seems you can’t deny your bloodline,” the father said, “I never imagined it in my wildest dreams, you coming back here to live side by side with me. You might find farming stuffy business at first, but you will find enjoyment in it by and by … The real problem is though, will your wife agree to live in the backwoods like this?”

“Of course. She was even more eager than I was to come down here so she should be fine.”

“Is that right? Well, that’s settled then. I guess I will get to hold my head up around here from now on.” the old man said, hinting that he had been embarrassed in front of his neighbors that despite having two sons, neither lived with him. Whatever the case, Sutaek’s life in the countryside had begun.

---
