# Dream Sky

**저자:** Shin Chae-ho  
**출처:** https://ltikorea.buk.io/@ka2060  
**책 ID:** ka2060  
**장르:** Allegorical Fantasy  

Dream Sky

By Shin Chae-ho

Translated by Hwang Sun-Ae & Horace Jeffery Hodges

Literature Translation Institute of Korea

---

## About the Author

About Shin Chae-ho

Shin Chae-ho (1880 – 1936) was an independence activist, historian, and journalist during the Japanese colonial rule over Korea. In a broader sense, he can be considered a man of letters and an advocate of national enlightenment. His pen name was Dan-jae, he was born into a noble yangban family in Daedeok, South Chungcheong Province, and he studied Chinese classics but gave up plans to pursue a government position when the signing of the Treaty of 1905 with Japan took away Korea’s national sovereignty. He then started writing opinion columns in the Hwang Seong Daily. Afterwards, he worked as chief editor of The Korea Daily News, always trying to instill national consciousness. He also engaged himself in the patriotic enlightenment movement through Sinminhoe, an independence movement organization. In 1910, he went into exile in China, and in 1922, he was invited to Shanghai by the head of Uiyeoldan, a group of patriotic Koreans with heroic spirit. Early the next year, he composed and presented the group’s manifesto, titled the Declaration of the Joseon Revolution. He insisted in this document on the necessity of a direct revolutionary fight by the people through violent action.

His view on the independence movement, which did not allow any compromise with the enemy, also influenced his view of history. He understood history as a “fight between self and non-self,” thereby establishing a theory of nationalistic history and founding modern Korean historical studies, seeking new interpretations of the history of Gojoseon and the Revolt of Myocheong, among other historical issues. He wrote such history books as Joseon’s Ancient History, Joseon’s Ancient Cultural History, The Basics of Research on the History of Joseon, and The Theory of the History of Joseon, as well as biographies of historical heroes, such as The Biography of Eulji Mundeok, The Biography of Yi Sun-sin, and The Biography of Choe Yeong. He also translated books, such as The Biography of the Three Founding Heroes of Italy, and he wrote such literary works as Dream Sky and Big Battle among Dragons, as well as other writings.

About Dream Sky

Shin Chae-ho’s nationalist novella Dream Sky, written in 1916, reads like a cross between The Apocalypse of St. John and Pilgrim’s Progress. The first several lines depict the protagonist Hannom seeing a divine figure revealed in the heavens who announces the necessity of struggling for national survival. Battles in the sky follow and reflect battles on earth. Hannom, however, is called on not merely to observe and record, but also to join in a celestial battle against Japanese invaders. Yet, he encounters various tests and temptations along the way that distract him from his goal of reaching the battle, and that teach him of his own weaknesses and shortcomings. The story is not an easy read, for it is long and didactic, demanding attention to detail and knowledge of history. Lengthy passages present lists of foreign villains, national traitors, and Korean heroes. This might all sound mind-numbing, but the story is often related in an unexpectedly lively manner that retains the interest of the reader, who – even if non-Korean – comes to identify with Hannom and suffer with him. Perhaps readers won’t emerge from the experience as Korean nationalists, but the story makes Korean nationalism more explicable.

---

## Dream Sky

1.

It was a day of some month in the year 4240 since Dangun’s founding of Gojoseon, or 1907 by the Western calendar. I do not recall if the place was in Seoul, or somewhere abroad, but I saw myself as Hannom seated upon a room-sized flower blooming on a several thousand furlong branch of a Rose of Sharon.

Suddenly, the heavens above opened, a reddish light streamed forth, and there appeared in the sky in the form of soft clouds a heavenly being. He wore the traditional Korean hat gat glowing with splendor, was clad in the traditional Korean overcoat durumagi glowing with even more glorious light, and was seated but wielding a sword of lightning in the right hand. He spoke in a thunderous voice.

“For humans, fighting is the only way to live. If they win, they survive, but if they lose, they die. That is the Lord’s order.”

No sooner had the voice finished, than the beam of light and the heavenly being both vanished, and sunlight spread across flat ground that came into view as the distant rumble of a great multitude was heard. From the east rose a flag displaying five differently colored rings denoting an army’s five ranks, under which marched advancing men who seemed our countrymen in language, but whose heads and bodies were strangely clad and who were of strong build and imposing air never before seen.

In the west, under a flag emblazoned with a dragon on the left and a phoenix on the right, thronged millions of soldiers, some with horns and tails, but no neck or arms, warriors of strange features pressed from behind by a cold wind.

Then, as Hannom, though troubled but also curious, was about to clamber down from the branch to see more clearly, the flower smiled and spoke, “You stay here. If you leave this place, darkness will pervade everywhere, and you will see nothing.”

As he sat back on the flower petal, clouds suddenly gathered together, blocking the sunlight, and an abrupt downpour flooded the ground and turned it to sea. There arose a great gust of wind with a thunderous roar, harsh beyond description, blasting and snapping trees, striking and blowing stones, and churning the sea with the power to break houses, mountains, everything! The seawater itself was as great as the wind. Struggling against each other, the wind and the water attacked and counterattacked so harshly that they met each other half in the air, like roaring dragons, breaching whales, or great, rushing armies springing into battle, the high rising water against the strong wind causing the entire earth to tremble.

“Despite wind and wave, we fight to our utmost,” rang the battle cry from each side as the warriors under the five-circled eastern flag and those under the dragon-and-phoenix western flag flung themselves toward each other wild-eyed, intent on the kill. The fight between wind and sea matched that between the two great armies of men and their leaders.

The fight was such as not seen in the history of East or West. The fighters bore no weapons in their hands, but as their mouths opened wide, fire and water, sword and arrow poured forth, and with sword against sword, arrow against arrow, fire against fire, water against water, the weapons fought each other first, only afterwards attacking people, who fought on with arms when heads were sliced off, and with legs when arms were lopped off. The people fought until their very flesh was wholly cut away and even their bones entirely broken apart. After but a short while, vast was the land with death, unendurable the stench of blood, and hideous the gore-splattered sky.

Hannom squeezed his eyes shut, unable to watch the horrible truth of the universe, but the flower smiled and spoke again, “Hannom, open your eyes! Don’t be a weakling! This is reality. Had you not come into the world, you would have avoided this, but as you came, you must therefore fight, lest you prove irresponsible. Hannom, open your eyes now!”

Hannom first had to wipe away his tears before opening his eyes to look around. The fight now seemed finished, as all was silent on earth and in heaven, the wind and rain all gone, the high risen sun warming the earth, and a repeated harmonious sound, as if the drumming of a wise, benevolent sage deep in the mountains, soon drawing near from high above, pressing its way down through the clouds, a sound of peace in a place of horror.

Those associated with this sound were none other than the officers and men from the east, united under the flag of five circles, returning to the beat of a drum for complete victory after fighting against the men of the west and killing several tens of millions of that enemy.

The commander who led them was wearing a conical hat with a golden flower pattern, and black clothes showing badges of rank on the shoulders. His face was clear but dignified, fiery but benevolent, like a Buddha at first glance but a tiger at second glance, lovely but dreadful together.

He approached the Rose of Sharon, where Hannom was sitting, and burst into tears at seeing the flower. “Ah, the Rose of Sharon is blooming,” he said, and then started singing in a heroic tone:

What flower might this be?

The spirit of snowy Mount Baekdu.

The lovely crimson light of Joseon.

Invigorating this blossom

requires rain, wind, and splattered blood.

Then shall it flourish!

In balmy days foregone,

we saw the flower so great,

one petal covered the land from the West Sea to Balhae,

another stretched over the Ussuri River and Manchuria.

Why, then, these days,

has the flower shrunk so much?

I mustered all my strength in every fight,

earlier in Salsu and Pyeongyang battles,

using my arms as bolted doors, my chest as a shield,

myself as a wall for the flower garden

to stop filthy water from the west

from ever permeating Joseon’s spring light.

Why, then, has my flower

grown so weak today?

He seemed to have more verses, but tears choked his singing, so the Rose of Sharon itself answered in clear song, though also shedding tears, as if the flower could sense the song’s emotion:

My beloved dressed me in a lovely spring costume.

To return his generosity,

wiping my face as I fought rain and wind,

I grew so very pale from boasting the beauty of Joseon.

The cool tears of a hero,

the hot blood of a patriotic martyr,

bring these in a bowl or dipper,

for I do thirst.

As the voice grew more pained and aching, even hard-hearted stones and trees stood up and called to one another in sadness. Hannom, who had been sitting on a flower petal, prostrated himself as the second of the two songs ended and felt so touched that he burst into tears, unable to get up.

The flower then called him, admonishing, “Hannom! Stop crying! You can’t neglect worldly affairs over your sorrow.”

At these words, Hannom lifted his head to look around and discovered the commander standing before him. Upon scrutinizing the man’s face, he found him very familiar, as if someone previously encountered. After some reflection, he said, “Ah, I now remember! From your eyes, forehead, and long, thin beard, as well as your manner of dress, you’re exactly like the image carved into the tombstone outside the north gate of Anju, in Pyeongan Province. You’re Eulji Mundeok! I’ve long wished to meet you, if only in a dream.”

Getting up and bowing to the man, he wanted to ask something but did not know how to address him, and as he hesitated, he also puzzled over the wonder standing before him. Eulji Mundeok had lived about 2945 Dangun (AD 612), and Hannom had come into the world in Dangun 4240 (AD 1907), so the time difference was greater than 1,000 years, but the affectionate manner of the man from some 1,000 years earlier toward a youth of some 1,000 years later seemed like the warmth among friends or family.

The man smiled at Hannom and said, “You’re hesitant about how to address me. Just treat me as your senior and call me seonbae. When Dangun came down to Mount Taebaek, he established three capitals and five departments for three gods and five kings. As he wanted his descendants to rule this land well for tens of thousands of years, he set up an ethics of three parts and five commandments and put three rang officials and five ga officials in charge of education. This led to the birth of a somewhat religious warrior’s spirit in Korea, and that spirit flourished and took fire in the time of the Three Kingdoms, and everybody elevated warriors, greeting them and proudly calling them by courteous titles. According to the History of the Three Kingdoms, Silla loved and called the warrior youth doryeong, a term translated as seonrang, while Baekje loved and called the middle-aged warriors sudu, translated as sodo, and Goguryeo loved and called the virtuous warriors seonbae, translated as seonin with regard to the meaning and the pronunciation. Because I’m a man of Goguryeo, you may – as I said – call me seonbae.”

At these words, Hannom again bowed, this time politely in the manner of Goguryeo, kneeling with one knee down. “Seonbae, who were those two armies from east and west that fought each other?”

To this question, seonbae responded, “The army in the east was of Goguryeo, that of the west was Sui’s army of China.”

Surprised and suspicious, Hannom stepped forward and asked, “Have I been lied to? I’m told that the good who die go to heaven and the defeated to hell, but is that false? Is the spirit world like the material world with its cruel stabbing of sword and killing by gun?”

Seonbae lamented, “Yes. The spirit world reflects the material world. If battles continue in the material world, they also continue in the spirit world. Religious reformers like the Buddha or Jesus spoke of heaven and hell, but their words were swallowed undigested, such that the foolish fell ill with all manner of ailments deadly to the country and the people. Hearken to what I say, and keep it in your heart. A cow cannot give birth to a dog, nor can a peach tree bear plums, so how could war in the material world beget peace in the spirit world? A child in the material world becomes a child in the spirit world. The adult remains an adult, the master a master, and the servant a servant there in the spirit world, so those spirits there, those doggaebi, whether high or low, sad or happy, receive the same there as in the material world. Inasmuch as I won the Battle of Salsu, I occupy the winner’s seat in the spirit world today, whereas the defeated Emperor Yang Guang of China’s Sui Dynasty, along with his defeated army, was also vanquished today in the battle you saw, losing two million soldiers to slaughter and returning in sadness; yet you are now the son of a defeated country, praying to Buddha or God to be received into heaven after death. That scarcely differs from looking for the sun with eyes shut tight.”

No sooner had Seonbae Eulji fallen silent than red clouds appeared and formed themselves into letters. Within the heavens was written: “Yes, yes, Eulji Mundeok is exactly right. Both the material world and the spirit world belong to the winner. Heaven is occupied only by those with hard fists, while those with weak fists are thrown into hell.”

---

2.

1) Body’s Left Fights Against Body’s Right

2) How the Battle of Salsu Looked

3) Eulji Mundeok Also Organized Battle Troops

4) General Sabeopmyeong of Baekje Dynasty Passed By above Clouds

Hannom was thus awakened early to his country’s history and had such great respect for Eulji Mundeok that he wrote and published a booklet about him titled Eulji Mundeok, the Very Greatest Man in Four Thousand Years. But it was neither a biography nor a thesis, for it lacked detailed research on account of Hannom’s impatience and was based only on the 18th-century history book Dongsa Gangmok.

When Hannom first came to this world, he carried a bundle of jeong and han, affection and resentment, and he had nowhere to go, nowhere to stay, no one to trust, and nobody to love. He was utterly alone in his coming and going, as implied by his name “Hannom” (one person). One generally reflects on one’s family roots when there’s nothing else to depend on, and Hannom did much the same, caring about his nation’s ancestors as he otherwise had nothing to rely on: how long the earlobes of the first king of Goguryeo were; how big the eyes of Silla’s King Jinheung were; how many the beautiful court women throwing themselves from Nakhwa Rock at the end of the Baekje Dynasty were; who the strong man fighting Emperor Yang of China’s Sui Dynasty was; how high the Yimryugak, a pavilion from the Baekje Dynasty, was; how long the holy belt Seongjedae of King Jinpyeong of the Silla Dynasty was. He tried to detect traces of Daejoyoung, the founder of Balhae, on the high mountain of Dongmyo; he shed tears at the river of Ungjin, thinking of the greatness of General Gyebaek of the Baekje Dynasty; he remembered a painting by Solgeo, the great artist of the Silla Dynasty, whenever he saw a pine tree; and he thought of the song of Silla’s musician Okbogo whenever he heard birds singing. Though only a person of limited understanding, he had traveled through 5,000 years of history wishing to meet great people among the ancestors, and he had so much to ask and talk about when he finally met the great man Eulji Mundeok, but the experience was strange. As he listened to what was said about the spirit world, his head ached and his heart became so perturbed that he lacked the mind to form proper questions, for his suspicion and fear gathered like clouds in the May sky and finally made something strange happen to his mind and body.

His right hand grew numb and bigger and bigger, stretching out so far that the fingertips almost vanished, and each of the five fingers became a hand itself and grew longer, each fingertip giving birth to a new finger whose tip became a hand again, like a son having a grandchild, and that grandchild having a great-grandchild. The right hand thus became several tens of thousands of hands, and not to be outdone, the left hand followed the right in also becoming several tens of thousands of hands, the right hands all holding blue flags and the left hands all holding black flags. The two parts started to fight each other. The right hands under the blue flags became tigers and sprang out with their jaws open wide, and the left hands under the black flags became deer and fled.

A large body of water suddenly appeared, trapping the deer with no exit, so they all changed into fish as they sprang into the water; but the tigers changed into snakes and chased after them, whereupon the fish then changed into pheasants and fluttered out of the water. The snakes changed into hawks and chased the pheasants, which changed into bigger hawks landing in a large field, whereupon the snakes that were the smaller hawks turned into fire and incinerated the larger hawks and set the entire field alight. The remains of the hawks drifted up to the sky, becoming clouds that poured rain and extinguished the fire, but a powerful wind scattered the clouds and overturned the world. This fight had started from Hannom’s fingertips, but his fingertips could not stop it.

As Hannom rubbed his eyes to see the fight more clearly, the Rose of Sharon petal under him clucked its tongue and said, “It’s heartrending, what’s going on! Iron eating iron, flesh eating flesh!”

His goose bumps rising at such words, Hannom first sat in utter silence, but finally inquired indirectly, “What do you mean? You proclaimed earlier that fighting is necessary. Do you now speak against fighting?”

The flower responded in a lovely voice, “If I have to fight, I should fight against another. Fighting against oneself is suicide, not a real fight.”

Hannom grew impatient and asked, “What does this ‘I’ actually mean? Haven’t you said that if I open my eyes wide, the universe will become my body, but if I open my eyes only a little, my right arm will treat my left one like a stranger?”

The flower rebuked him sharply, making him alert. “The ‘I’ expands or contracts according to time! Family is ‘I’ in the time of familism, whereas the nation is ‘I’ during the time of nationalism! If you spring ahead of the time, your feet will tear off, and if you fall behind the time, your head will crack open! What is today’s era? Do you even know? Greece lost power as a strong nation because of its headstrong provinces, and India is courting national disaster because of tribalism.”

Deeply moved by this explanation, Hannom wept with appreciation and touched his right hand with his left, returning his right hand to its normal size; then he touched his left hand with his right, returning his left hand to its normal size, as in days gone by. At his side, Eulji Mundeok sat embracing the sunlight and reciting:

Our country is like a set of scales.

Capital Buso is the body of the scales,

Capital Baeka is the head of the scales,

Capital Odeok is the weight for the scales.

Beating all enemies in one day and

making three places capitals,

the country will be balanced,

such that none of the three should be lost.

Eulji Mundeok finished and turned to Hannom. “Do you know this passage?”

“I read it in The History of Goryeo by Jeong In-ji,” said Hannom.

“That’s right,” Eulji Mundeok confirmed. “Long ago, Dangun defeated all enemies and divided the land into three, setting up capitals. The first capital was chosen in the land of Joseon, southeast of Mount Taebaek, and it was called Buso; the next capital was chosen in Manchuria, west of Mount Taebaek, and it was called Baekagang; and the third capital was chosen in Yeonhaeju Province of Manchuria, northeast of Mount Taebaek, and it was called Odeok. Concerned lest his descendants should grow weak if even one of the three capitals were lost, Dangun wrote down this prophecy and entrusted it to a sinji, or tribal chieftain, but no one knows today where the capitals were located, and even the original passage has been forgotten. Although Jeong In-ji quoted it in The History of Goryeo, he made two mistakes: first, he quoted it as if it had been spoken by a fortune-teller; second, following the geographical texts of Goryeo, he described the three capitals of Dangun as located within the territory bounded by the Daedong River.”

Hannom asked, “How were the three capitals lost?”

Eulji-Mundeok replied, “Remember what I said before? That power is the ladder to heaven? Not many Koreans know this truth. Each of the 21 Chinese dynasties compiled a book on Korea and its people, and they characterized Koreans as benevolent and virtuous every time. This description worked toward our decline. If a people describes itself as benevolent and virtuous, such a description can help them flourish, but the same description by an enemy only contributes to a people’s fall . . .”

---

3.

(Skipped text) As Eulji Mundeok was speaking fervently, and Hannom listening closely, the sky in the east abruptly opened, spewing forth entities of destruction: fire swords, fire arrows, fire stones, fire guns, fire cannons, fire braziers, fire caldrons, fire tigers, fire lions, fire dogs, and fire cats. Startled, Eulji Mundeok cried, “Why should this be happening right now?” and quickly flew over the rainbow and into the melee.

---
