# The Song of Ch’unhyang: Musical Text

**저자:** Ah-jeong Kim and R. B. Graves  
**출처:** https://ltikorea.buk.io/@ka2051  
**책 ID:** ka2051  
**장르:** Romance  

The Song of Ch’unhyang: Musical Text

as compiled by

Master Singer Kim Yŏn-su

Translated with an Introduction by

Ah-jeong Kim and R. B. Graves

---

Translation Copyright © 1997 Ah-jeong Kim & R. B. Graves

Edited by Hilary Vanessa Finchum-Sung

All rights reserved. All texts thus made available are for personal use only and may not be reproduced commercially without permission from both the original copyright holder and Literature Translation Institute of Korea.

Digitally published by the Literature Translation Institute of Korea in 2017.

LTI Korea, 112 Gil-32,

Yeongdong-daero(Samseong-dong),

Gangnam-gu, Seoul, 06083, Korea

www.ltikorea.org

eISBN 9791187947424

Cover design by David Drummond

Produced by DIYPIA.Inc

---

About the Translators:

Ah-jeong Kim is a translator and professor of theatre history at the California State University, Northridge. Since 1994, she has translated numerous plays, film scripts, and ch’anggŭk (sung epic narrative) for stage performances including Romeo and Juliet for the 2006 Barbican International Theatre Festival, London. Along with co-translator, R. B. Graves, Kim received the Fifth Korean Literature Translation Award in 2001 for The Metacultural Theatre of Oh T’ae-Sok: Five Plays from the Korean Avant-Garde, published by the University of Hawaii Press (1999).

R. B. Graves is a translator, editor, and professor emeritus of theatre history at the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign. Recipient of the Fifth Korean Literature Translation Award, his extensive translation and editing credits include The Metacultural Theatre of Oh T’ae-Sok, Seashore Village(Kaenmaŭl, film), Sheaf Burning (Sanbul, drama), and Elegy of River Crossing(Kongmudoha, music drama) for the National Korean Music Center.

---

Contents

Acknowledgements

Translators’ Note

Introduction

The Song of Ch’unhyang. Musical Text

Selected Bibliography

---

## Acknowledgements

The translators would like to offer sincere thanks to the Literature Translation Institute of Korea(LTI Korea) for its generous support. The Research and Graduate Studies Program at the California State University, Northridge, provided additional support that afforded time to complete the manuscript. Thanks are due to colleagues at Cal State University, Northridge: Angela Lew, a senior reference librarian there, offered her expertise on the romanization of Chinese and Professor Alexis Krasilovsky of the Department of Cinema and Television Art read the text in draft form and offered helpful suggestions. We are grateful to Lauren Deutsch for lending proofreading assistance. Our deepest appreciation goes to Professor Ch’oe Tong-hyŏn of Kunsan National University in Korea who answered our queries regarding regional dialects and archaic expressions. His books, photographs, and CDs helped deepen our understanding of the art of p’ansori. And this book would not have been possible without the help of the Korean actress for film, television, and stage, Kang Sŏn-suk, who offered us a copy of the original text by the late Kim Yŏn-su, the compiler of The Song of Ch’unhyangfor this English translation.

---
